Task-1

1) What do you mean by git and GitHub?

Git is a distributed version control system allowing us to have control over all the previous versions of our files as well as allowing easy collaboration and community tasks.
Git allows us to easily rollback to previous versions and also work at multiple versions simultaneously with the help of branches 
GitHub is a hosting service or website for all our projects and files allowing us the full implementation of git. It is the best way of contributing and learning in the field of open-source.


2) Why GitHub is so popular and used in most of the projects?

GitHub is very popular due to its vast community and huge impact on open-source development.
People get help from other people in the form of contributions and hence reveal the real meaning of open source.
It is used in most of the projects nowadays because every project requires to have a version control system as well as contribution from the open source community.

3) What is a version control system? How git is a VCS?

A version control system is a system allowing us to have control and record over different versions of our project. Git is a version control system as it allows all the respective functionalities along with features like committing to open source projects. All this is done in a distributed fashion i.e, every project has a server repo and a local repo thus eliminating the chances of loss. Hence it is a really powerful DVCS.

4) What are the other platforms similar to GitHub?

Gitlab
Bitbucket
SourceForge
Apache Allura
GitKraken

5) Why are you interested in learning git and GitHub?

It is essential for every project so as to get help in debugging. Additionally, I want to start contributing in open source and become a part of this vast community. Also, I want to participate in GSOC. Nowadays GitHub has become a portfolio for programmers and I want to create an impressive GitHub profile.



Task-2

1) Share the link to the GitHub repository you have created?

https://github.com/Huzaib/Binary-Search-Using-Divide-And-Conquer


2) Your README should contain a brief about the project and should be written in markdown language.

https://github.com/Huzaib/Binary-Search-Using-Divide-And-Conquer/blob/master/README.md


a) How git workflow works?

It consists of our Workspace, Staging Area, Local Repo and Remote Repo.
Developers start by cloning the remote repository. In their own local copies of the project, they edit files and commit changes however, these new commits are stored locally - they're completely isolated from the remote repository.
To publish changes to the official project, developers "push" their local master branch to the remote repository.


b) What are the different stages of a git project as commit, add?

init- To initialise a git repository
add- To add our project to staging area
commit- To add all our files in our staging area to our local repo
push- To add our files in the local repo to the remote repo
fetch- To get files to local repo from remote repo
merge- To merge the files to our workspace
pull- fetch+merge


c) Is it possible to do a commit before git add, if you have made any changes? Explain why?

No, we can commit only the files in the staging area and we have to git add them to get them in the staging area first. Git cannot track the files that are not present in the staging area and hence git commit is not possible before git add. Hence to have the files in the local repo we have to perform git add plus git commit in the same order.


d) Why is git diff used?

It is a command to see the differences between files in our staging area and our workspace. It can be used to check before committing whether all the changes are added to the staging area before committing to the local repo. Hence helping us to not miss any file or changes within a file before pushing. The files changed  are shown in red. Git log can be used to track all the changes in decreasing order of their occurrences.


e) Can we leave the commit message blank?

Yes we can. It is just for our convenience to give every commit a commit message. But it is a good practice to add a commit message because it helps us remember the changes we made in each and every commit.