Task 1:

Hello Everyone,
My name is Yash Vijan and I am pursuing B-Tech in Computer Science and Engineering from DIT University.

1.What do you mean by Git and GitHub?
Git is a distributed version control system which tracks changes to source code over time. It is a command line tool that requires an interface to interact with the world. It stores and catalogs changes in code in a repository. Multiple developers can work simuntaneously with no code conflicts. It uses repositories to store the changes made in source code.

Github is a web-based hosting service for git repository to bring team together. It is a graphical interface and a development platform created for millions of developers. It provides a platform as a collaborative effort to bring teams together.

2. Why GitHub is so popular and used in most of the projects?
As it is web service so user can access his project from anywhere and It support all types of files. Through github we can share our code with others giving them the power to make edits on various Git branches. It is so popular and used in most of the projects because of the following reasons:
a)Open, clear communication
b)Public APIs. These allowed others to build upon their work.
c)The right amount of functionality: repo, issue tracking, wiki, GitHub Pages
d)Developer Oriented.

3. What is a version control system? How Git is a VCS?
Version Control System (VCS) is a software that helps software developers to work together and maintain a complete history of their work. VCS allows developers to work simultaneously and maintain a history record of every version. It doesn't allow overwriting each other's changes.
There are 3 types of VCS:
Local Version Control System
Centralised Version Control System
Distributed/Decentralised Version Control System. 
Git is a Distributed Version Control tool that supports distributed non-linear workflows by providing data assurance for developing quality software Git gives each developer a local copy of the entire development history, and changes are copied from one such repository to another. These changes are imported as additional development branches, and can be merged in the same way as a locally developed branch.

4. What are the other platforms similar to GitHub?
The other Platforms similar to GitHub are:
1.GitLab
2.BitBucket 
3.SourceForge 
4.Launchpad 
5.CodeGaint

5. Why are you interested in learning of Git and GitHub?
I want to learn Git and GitHub due to enhance my knowledge. Learning Git and GitHub will help boost my potential and ease towards open source development.
Task 2:

Hello Everyone,
My name is Yash Vijan and I am pursuing B-Tech in Computer Science and Engineering from DIT University.
The following is a link to the GitHub Repository I have created: https://github.com/Yash19V/Git-Series

1.How git workflow works?
There is only one central repository. Each developer clones the repository, works locally on the code(remote repository), makes a commit with changes, and push it to the central repository for other developers to pull and use in their work.
This workflow employs two parallel long-running branches:
•	Master
•	Develop

The three stages of a file are:
1.Untracked: the file exists, but is not part of git's version control
2.Staged: the file has been added to git's version control but changes have not been committed
3.Committed: the change has been committed

2.What are the different stages of a git project as commit, add?
add: It is used to move a file from workspace (working directory) to the staging stage (Index), they are tagged for the next commit.
commit: It is used to move a file from staging stage (Index) to Local Repository. It is used to save a particular position of our repository so that we could come back later if we ever want to.

3.Is it possible to do git commit before git add. If you have made any changes? Explain why?
Yes, you can perform git commit command before git add by using: git commit -a command, which is a shortcut in which we can skip the git add command.

4. Why is git diff used?
Diff command is used in git to track the difference between the changes made on a file. Since Git is a version control system, tracking changes are something very vital to it. Diff command takes two inputs and reflects the differences between them. It is not necessary that these inputs are files only. It can be branches, working trees, commits and more

5. Can we leave the commit message as blank?
Yes, we can leave the commit message as a blank. But, generally a non-empty message is preferred because providing a meaningful commit message is part of good development practice.


