TASK-1
Hello People!
I am Aryaman Ranjan, pursuing B.Tech (4th-year student) from DIT University.
Here are my answers of Task-1.
Q1. What do you mean by git and GitHub?
Ans- Git- Created by Linux Torvald (Same person who created Linux Kernel)
         Git is the actual version control software. This the actual application.
         Github - It is a web service where you can sign up and have an account and do stuff, do Git things, on a server, on a website.
Ques 2. Why GitHub is so popular and used in most of the projects?
Ans- In git, it handles all those merging of different source code from different people and maintaining versions.
 Git is actually a distributed version control system.
 SCM - Software Configuration Management/ Source Code Management                                                                                                                              MVP - Minimal Value Product.
Easy version control- It tracks all the changes made to our code and who makes them. Having such a version history is a must when we           collaborate with someone on the same project. Especially when the number of contributors surpasses double digits.                                                        Secure cloud storage- The platforms protect all our data for us: protects code branches, verifies commit signing, controls access.
Ques 3. What is a version control system? How Git is a VCS?
Ans- Version control systems are a category of software tools that helps record changes to files by keeping a track of modifications.
         Version control is the management of changes to documents,computer programs,large websites and other collection of information.
	There are two types of VCS:
        CVCS -In this, the earlier version was stored in the server.
                   -We have a working copy, but what if the server fails.
        DVCS -Multiple machines and every one has its own personal working copy.
                   -We will have a local repository and on the server, we have a remote repository.
Ques 4. What are the other platforms similar to GitHub?
Ans- -GitLab
         -BitBucket
         -SourceForge
         -Launchpad
         -Google Cloud Source Repositories.
Ques 5. Why are you interested in learning of Git and Github?
Ans- The history of what you are making is important and that is what is known as version control.
           Rather than a creator having to keep a track of separate files and history yourself manually, Git is a piece of software that does that for you.
           Collaboration is another of its feature that allows many people to collaborate on the project together.
          -Git is free and open-source.
	  -Dropbox will have the backup of your project
          -Creating your own GitHub repository is possible. 

TASK-2
Hello People!
I am Aryaman Ranjan, pursuing B.Tech (4th-year student) from DIT University.
Here are my answers of Task-2.
QA. How git workflow works?
Ans- 1. Working directory — Workspace.
2. Index ie stage
3. Local Repository ie Head
4. Remote Repository
There is one central repository.
Each developer clones the repo,
works locally on the code,
Modifies and makes the changes as required
Commit the changes using command commit -a with changes
and push it to the central repository
for other developers to pull and use in their work.
QB. What are the different stages of a git project as commit ,add?
Ans- Different stages of a git project:
     1.Untracked: the file exists in workspace, but is not part of local repository.
     2.Staged: the file has been added to local repository but changes have not been committed
     3.Committed: the change has been committed and added to local repository.
QC. Is it possible to do a git commit before git add. if you have made any changes. Explain why?
Ans-  No, because according to the process
first, we have to add the file and then commit changes to it
After making the changes we will add them using “git add .”
and then we can commit it using (commit -a).
QD. why is git diff used?
Ans- git diff is used to track the difference between the changes made on a file. This command shows all the
changes which are done. Diff command takes two inputs and reflects the differences between them. These inputs don’t need to be filed only.
It can be branches, working trees, commits, and more.
QE. Can we leave a commit message as blank?
Ans- Yes , we can leave a commit message blank.
git commit -a — allow-empty-message -m msg
It is a valid request, commit can have no message at all.
Link to GitHub repository :
https://github.com/Aryaman07/git_series