Task-1
1.Git is an distributed version control software which helps us to manage our source code related works. Also git is used to handle combining of different sourcecodes from different members in coding society.
Where, Github is a website / an Web Service at which an user may have individual account on that web server where it actually  works as an social network  for projects that are managed through Git.
02.we can say that it is the largest repository in the world which is well known for its valuable space that it provides for data to be stored. It allows to store unlimited public codes as repositories where we can also create organisations .Also github is mainly known for its features as it provides some trademarking features such as
i) repository
ii) commit
iii) commit hash
03.
We need to be updated daily i.eee,we have to be more relavant to updations rather than believing in past done work .an version control system enables user to update his or her repositories which records any changes that are made to the respected file which can be called with specific versions
Git is considered as an version control system since in gut we can keep an track record of all our work and easily navigate among the many versions of file that we create. Also git allows an user toa ssign task to different user making it cluster clear who is responsible for which part of the analysis.
04.
I found some platforms same as github such as:
Source Forge, Apache Allura, Gitlab e. t. c.,
05 .
Many interviews ask for an github profe to see oyr projects and our work relatedd efficiency. A good agithub profile can impress an HR and is an valuable skill to have as an programmer, not only for maintaining an work place but also personally. Companies usually loves programmers that invest themselves for the community by vigourous practice finally learning can defnitely give us really a good job. Using git give us an wideexposure for our taking up projects or done projects or for our practice.

TASK:02    :: Submission                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              QA. How git workflow works?
Ans- 1. Working directory  is Workspace.
2. Index is stage
3. Local Repository is Head
4. Remote Repository
There is one central repository.
Each developer clones the repository they created,
works locally on the code,
Modifies and makes the changes as required
Commit the changes using command commit  with changes
and push it to the central repository
for other developers to pull and use in their work.
QB. What are the different stages of a git project as commit ,add?
Ans- Different stages of a git project:
     1.Untracked
     2.Staged
     3.Committed
QC. Is it possible to do a git commit before git add. if you have made any changes. Explain why?
Ans-  No, because according to the process
first, we have to add the file and then commit changes to it(any changes)
After making the changes we will add them using “git add .”
and then we can commit it using (commit -a).
QD. why is git diff used?
Ans- git diff is used mainly to track the difference between the changes made on a file time to time. This command shows all the
changes which are done to an particular file. Diff command takes two inputs and reflects the differences between them. These inputs don’t need to be filed only.
It can be branches, working trees, commits, and more.
QE. Can we leave a commit message as blank?
Ans- Yes , we can leave a commit message blank.
It is a valid request, commit can have no message at all.
Link to GitHub repository :https://github.com/SumanthMaturi/sumanthgitseries/tree/master

