Task 1
1.)   Git is a free, open source distributed version control system tool designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency. It was created by Linus Torvalds in 2005 to develop Linux Kernel. Git has the functionality, performance, security and flexibility that most teams and individual developers need.
GitHub is a Git repository hosting service, which provides a web-based graphical interface. It helps every team member to work together on the project from anywhere and makes it easy for them to collaborate.
2.)  Easy Project Management: GitHub is one place where project managers and developers coordinate, track, and update their work so projects stay transparent and on schedule.
Increased safety of packages: The packages can be published privately, or within the team or publicly for the open-source community. The packages can be used or reused by downloading it from the GitHub.
Effective team management: GitHub helps all the team members to stay on the same page and stay organized. Moderation tools like issue and pull request locking help the team to focus on the code.
Improved code writing: Pull requests help the teams to review, improve, and propose new codes on GitHub. The implementations and proposals can be discussed before changing the source code.
Increased code safety: GitHub uses tools to identify and analyze vulnerabilities to the code, that other tools tend to miss. Development teams everywhere work together to secure the software supply chain, from fork to finish.
Easy code hosting: All the codes and documentation are present in one place. There are millions of repositories on GitHub and each repository has its own tools to help you host and release code.
3.) Version control systems are a category of software tools that helps record changes to files by keeping a track of modifications done to the code.
Git provides with all the Distributed VCS facilities to the user that was mentioned earlier. Git repositories are very easy to find and access.
4.) 1 Gitlab
2 SourceForge
3 Google Cloud Source Repositories
4 Apache Allura
5GitKraken
5.) GitHub is an open-source contribution. And During working on projects,  I found it very difficult to save projects and versions and all..and to do changes to existing one all these kind of things creates a number of errors in my project . So, It helps me there too to keep my projects safe and make my work collaborative .

Task 2:
Q1. How git workflow works?
Ans. There are 4 fundamentals of Git workflow:
1. Workspace - which is our local directory
2. Index- also called stage
3. Local Repository- HEAD
4. Remote Repository
If you consider a file in your workspace it can be in 3 possible states:
i. It can be committed which means latest changes to the file are safely stored in local repository .
ii. It could be modified and changes are not saved in local Repository so locally modified.
iii. It can be staged means that it can be considered in next commit.
Some commands :
1. add(-u): add file from workplace to index
2. commit: all files staged (one can also directly commit from workplace to local Repository)
3. push: pushes your changes from local Repository to remote Repository.
In case for opposite flow we use fetch command.
b. What're the different stages of a git project as commit, add?
Ans. Files in a Git project have various stages like Creation, Modification, Refactoring, and Deletion and so on. Irrespective of whether this project is tracked by Git or not, these phases are still prevalent. However when a project is under Git version control system, they are present in three major Git states in addition to these basic ones. Here are the three Git states:
Working directory 
Staging area 
Git directory 
These stages are the essence of Git. You get great flexibility in tracking the files due to these stages that files can reside in under Git. Let’s understand each of these states one by one.
c. Is it possible to do a git commit before git add . if you have made any changes? Explain why?
Ans.  No, It is not possible because the updated file must be added to staging area.
The "commit" command is used to save your changes to the local repository.
d. Why is git diff used?
Ans. It is used to show changes between commits, commit, and working tree, etc. It compares the different versions of data sources. The version control system stands for working with a modified version of files. So, the diff command is a useful tool for working with Git.
e. Can we leave the commit message as blank?
Ans. Yes, git generally requires a non-empty message because providing a meaningful commit message is part of good development practice and good repository stewardship. The first line of the commit message is used all over the place within git.
Link to github repository :
https://github.com/manan3349/reboot-2.0

manan3349/reboot-2.0
Last updated
10 hours ago
<https://github.com/manan3349/reboot-2.0|manan3349/reboot-2.0>manan3349/reboot-2.0 | Jun 25th | Added by GitHub


